This is part two of writing our media queries.
And this is where we left off.
So remember that last media query we wrote
was for the 1,000 pixels here.
Okay, so right here.
So let's now move down, like a lot.
For example here to 700,
and take a look if everything is still alright.
But it's really not.
Okay so here, you see that the text is already overflowing
and well, down here everything looks okay to me.
And here as well,
and that's because, remember we did all of this here
automatically and without the media queries,
and so we're not going to have to worry about
neither this section here, and also not all of this here.
So the problem lies here in this story,
and also I see here in the realtors
because that's not really enough space.
Okay, and so we need to fix that.
And I always like to go here in 100 pixel steps
and so if it's not right at 719,
then let's do the media query at 800.
Okay, so right here.
So that is the last point where it still looks good,
or at least acceptable, okay.
And so from here on, we will then change stuff.
And how are we going to do that?
Well the first thing is to put this realtors
here actually below the header.
So we will have the header expand all the way
from the first column, to the last one,
and the realtors here as well.
And so we will put that one here down below,
and then put these realtors here, all of them side by side
and get rid of that text here.
Okay and the same thing here as well.
So we're going to put this text part here first,
and then the images below.
Okay but let's start with this top part here.
So again we start with the variable definition,
so breakpoint,
and this one is medium.
And so let's calculate 800 by 16 makes 50em.
So 15em, and that is 800 pixels.
Okay and so of course the first thing that we have to change
is our grid definition.
Right, because right now we are going to have a new row.
And the column here we actually don't need as well,
but what we want here is the new row.
And that's right after the header, right.
So this first row is for the sidebar,
the second one here will be for the header,
and the one after that will be a new one,
and that's for the realtors.
Okay, and so that's it.
So we want it to be the size to fit the content,
just as we have here in all of these others.
Now besides that, what I also want is this header
to actually fill up the entire viewport.
So let's do that by saying 100vh.
But that will actually not be 100% correct,
but let's actually take a look at why that is.
So the positioning here didn't change yet,
because we didn't change that.
But we see that the row here changed to 100 viewport, right?
But the thing is that actually it has
some more space down here.
So you see that when I scroll down, I want it to end
basically at this point so that the next section starts
right after the header.
But you see that it actually continues here,
and that's because of this six rem here that we have here
at the top, right.
So we said that this row here has 100 viewport height,
and in fact it has.
So when we scroll, like to this point, then you see
that it fills the entire area.
What we didn't account for was this six rem here.
And so let's do that, and we can do that
using the calc function.
And so the calc function is really amazing,
it's really helpful, and I showed you some applications
of this earlier in the course,
but here again it is really useful.
And so you can also see now that we can actually
use the calc function here in the grid definitions.
Okay, and so what we do now, is to basically take
100 viewport height and then subtract the six rem
that we have here for the sidebar.
Okay, and so that's going to do the trick.
And so you will see now that once we start scrolling,
that the next section will appear right below that.
Right?
So just like this.
That's exactly what we want.
Now next up, let's then finally position
these two grid items here to where we want them to be.
And remember, we want both of them to span
the entire viewport.
So that's right here in the header.
And so let me get that media query here again.
And yeah, I can do it right here.
And so what's going to change
is this grid column here, right.
So right now we will have grid column from one to minus one.
And that's it.
I could also have used full-start to full-end,
but it's really just the same so it doesn't really matter.
Now next up, we have to do the same thing for the realtors.
So let's come here
and put the same media query in here.
And now taking a look, and you'll see
that it's already working.
Okay so now both the header and the realtors
span the entire viewport.
But you see that this is here now occupying
way too much space, and we actually do have space
to put all of this side by side.
And so let's do that now.
So where is that, yeah it's here, it's this list, right.
So that this, or other grid that we have here,
and so remember that our grid template columns here
was min-content and max-content.
And so let's change that now.
And what we want here is to actually have this here
three times,
so we will have an image and then the text,
and then again an image, and then again a text,
and then again the image, and then again the text.
So it will be min-content and max-content, but three times.
So repeat three times all of this.
And so you see here that we can put actually
more than one track here in this repeat function, right.
So we can put as many tracks as we want here
and they will then be multiplied.
So we will end up with six column tracks here
instead of the two that we started with.
Okay that should already be enough,
and yeah that looks great.
So that part is solved, and so let's move on
to this one here.
And so the solution here will be, as I mentioned before,
to put this part here, so the content part here on top,
and then this part with the images here below.
And both spanning of course the entire viewport as well.
So let's implement that very quick.
And so actually we just have to copy this media query here
to where is it, yeah, near the story.
So the pictures part will span from one to minus one,
overriding what we have here.
And then of course the same for the content.
So overriding then effectively this part of the code.
Okay, let's check it out.
And yeah, so that doesn't look like perfect,
but it's for now okay like this.
But we want to change now though,
is that this part here should come first.
And so for that, we are now gonna actively place
this item here on the row that we want it to be.
So what row line does this one start?
So now here in this dev tools, we don't have to draw lines,
but we can count them manually.
So up here is number one,
then row line number two,
number three, four,
and five.
So we want the content to start at five and go to six.
So grid-row five to six.
Let's check it out.
And yeah, indeed, that's it.
Now all we have to change is the placement here
of these images of course.
So let's do that.
And so I'm going to paste the media query here.
And so how are we going to do that?
So remember that we have a six by six grid
and so let's put this image here
starting on grid column number one to, let's say,
grid column number three.
And then the rows,
let's start it from the start and all the way to the end.
Okay, and then actually let's add a padding here
to these pictures
of three rem.
And the same here, so basically
we now want these images here
to go from the start all the way to the beginning
of the grid.
And here I'm just gonna leave the column,
but I also want the width to not be 115%.
So let's say with 100% instead.
And let's just take a look at that.
And okay that doesn't look perfect yet,
so let's maybe increase the size of this one here
and then also make it actually occupy
the entire grid area here.
So I want a height of 100% here now.
And let's then change the width automatically, so auto.
And here let's say column number four.
So how is that going to look like?
And actually not much different,
let's change the padding here.
And you'll see that this is all very subjective,
so you could do it in any different way,
I'm just adapting it here so that it looks
better in the end.
And that's actually still not looking all too good,
so let's try to increase this here even further.
And what I also actually noticed
is that we have something missing here,
which is the background size.
So we want a background size of cover here, of course.
So that changed now, but here with this image,
nothing really changed.
Let's inspect that.
And so that's kind of weird, let's change the width to 100%
so that it actually fills the cell that we just defined.
And yeah so that looks much better.
So the width that we want is 100%
so that it actually occupies the entire grid cell in width.
So the width should still be 100%,
so that's the same that we have up there.
So let's actually get rid of this and of this as well.
And yeah, so that should fix it.
If we reload it, and yeah.
So that looks much nicer.
And so yeah, this is fixed as well now.
Right, looks really great.
Well not at this point here again,
but again we will have to fix that later
in another media query.
But for now, it works fine like that.
So our entire page looks amazing at this point
of 800 and even 700 pixels like this.
So where should we then place our next media query?
And everything looks great here at this point, I believe.
So everything is fine,
well not really here.
And I think we actually should have fixed that
in the other media query,
so in this one here.
So in the 800 pixel one.
So this one.
And so let's try to fix that now.
And the problem is here in the grid definition again.
So we have this 40 viewport width here
that applies to this row here,
because it's the one, two, three, four,
the fifth row.
So one, two, three, four, and five.
But we actually no longer want this to happen.
Instead, we want the content to dictate the size of the row.
And so therefore, let's change this to min-content.
And actually we didn't even add a new row here for this,
so we simple placed this grid item here in this new row,
but we didn't create a new one
and that's not a problem because all that's gonna happen
is that these rows are placed on the implicit grid.
So what we want to do here is to change this to min-content.
And so we have a lot of min-content here,
and so in fact we can actually get rid of all of this,
because as I was mentioning, the automatic placement
already will take care of that,
we don't have to worry about it.
So the only two rows that we really want to style
in terms of size, by ourselves, are the first two.
So the sidebar and the header,
and the rest will now be sized based on the content.
And so if we now decrease this,
then you see that everything is fine with this section.
And so as is with this one here.
And so all we really have to change here
for the smaller screens is this part here.
So at this smaller width, like 500 or 550,
it starts overflowing.
And so that's not what we want,
and so we need to fix that.
And I'm going to do that here on 600 pixels.
And also I'm going to decrease the padding on this section.
So at 600 pixels, these two things are all we have to change
because again the rest here now works perfectly fine.
So let's add a new variable here.
bp-small,
and 600 by 16
is 37.5em.
Which means 600 pixels.
So the first issue is in the header.
And so let's copy this actually.
And so all we're gonna change here
is the padding to five rem,
so going from eight to five rem.
And then the next thing is in the realtors.
So up here, and what we want to happen now
is to basically go back to what we had
here in the beginning.
So put these realtors one after the other,
so one below each other.
So all we have to do now is to go back to this grid columns,
put it here, and then we should be good to go.
Well, actually nothing really happened I believe.
Let's reload.
And maybe there's something wrong with the media query here,
so bp-small, but actually everything seems to be correct.
Let's check out if there's any error
maybe here in the Terminal, and yeah, so again,
of course there is something.
And yeah, so it's this semicolon.
So give it a save again,
and yeah, so here we go.
One after the other now again.
And here we have the smaller padding,
which looks a lot better now.
And so this now works, even on like really small screens,
like this, right?
Now this is maybe not really perfect,
so you could decrease the spacing here
in this section, decrease this spacing here,
and all of the spacing here in this grid,
but I'm not going to do all of that,
all I wanted to really do is to make the layout look good.
And that's actually happening, so everything is perfect.
And you saw how little CSS media queries
I actually had to wrote in order to make the layout
go all the way from this fully-fledged web page,
to a mobile screen like this.
So we only wrote maybe 100 lines of media queries,
maybe even less, to achieve this.
And that's all because of the power of CSS grid.
I really can't stress that enough.
So if you want to go ahead and make this even better
and practice your media query skills here,
then please do that.
But I believe that for now, this is more than enough.
So great work, great progress up until this point.
And our website is now basically ready.
In the next two videos, we will just discuss
a couple of more theoretical stuff,
but as for the coding, it is now actually pretty much done.
So great work, and yeah, see you next time.